# Improvement-in-the-working-condition-of-a-pure-sine-wave-inverter
Inverter system technology lies at the heart of many renewable energy systems particularly solar PV systems. These systems are seen as the future of electric power systems considering the harmful effects that fossil-fuel based systems have on the environment. Hence, the improvement of inverter system technology is necessary for the development of more effective and efficient electric power systems. The safe operation of inverter systems is threatened by two common sources of failure which are the overheating of the switches of the bridge circuit and overcurrent conditions. These overcurrent could be as a result of a short-circuit in the load terminals, a short- circuit in the inverter bridge (shoot-through condition) or an overload. Hence, a 500W pure sine wave inverter is designed and implemented in this work, which incorporates a secondary control unit that is aimed at protecting the inverter against the aforementioned sources of failure. This secondary control unit receives input signals from a short-circuit/overload sensing unit which it uses to constantly monitor the current in the bridge circuit of the inverter, and instantly shuts down the system at the occurrence of any form of overcurrent. The secondary control unit also receives input signals from a temperature sensing unit, which it processes to determine the junction temperatures of the MOSFETs in the bridge circuit, and instantly shuts down the system at the slightest deviation of the MOSFETs from their respective thermal limits. The role played by the secondary control unit in the inverter minimized failure to the barest minimum and hence improved its overall working condition.
